docs/get-started/installing-nethermind.md, before:

---
title: Installing Nethermind
sidebar_position: 2
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

Nethermind can be installed in several ways:

- [Via a package manager](#package-managers)
- [As a standalone download](#standalone-downloads)
- [As a Docker container](#docker-container)
- [By building from source code](../developers/building-from-source.md)

## Prerequisites

:::info
Does not apply to Docker distributions.
:::

Before installing Nethermind, your specific platform might need the following prerequisites.

<Tabs groupId="os">
<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">

On Linux systems, Snappy is a required dependency. Below are the installation instructions for the supported distros.

#### Ubuntu and Debian-based distros

```bash
sudo apt-get install libsnappy-dev
```

#### CentOS, Fedora, and RHEL-like distros

```bash
sudo dnf install snappy
```

On RHEL-like systems, Nethermind also requires the following symlink to bzip2:

```bash
sudo ln -s `find /usr/lib64/ -type f -name "libbz2.so.1*"` /usr/lib64/libbz2.so.1.0
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="windows" label="Windows">

Although the modern versions of Windows are bundled with a recent version of [Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable](https://aka.ms/vcredist), in some cases, it may need an update:

```powershell
winget install Microsoft.VCRedist.2015+.x64
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="macos" label="macOS">None</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Package managers

Package managers are the easiest and fastest way of installing Nethermind.

<Tabs groupId="os">
<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">

On Ubuntu and other Linux distros supporting PPA, Nethermind can be installed via Launchpad PPA.

First, add the Nethermind repository:

```bash
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:nethermindeth/nethermind
```

:::note
If the command is not found, run:

```bash
sudo apt-get install software-properties-common
```
:::

Then, install Nethermind as follows:

```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nethermind
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="windows" label="Windows">

On Windows, Nethermind can be installed via Windows Package Manager as follows:

```powershell
winget install nethermind
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="macos" label="macOS">

On macOS, Nethermind can be installed via Homebrew.

First, add the Nethermind repository:

```sh
brew tap nethermindeth/nethermind
```

Then, install Nethermind as follows:

```sh
brew install nethermind
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

For further instructions, see [Running Nethermind](#running).

## Standalone downloads

Standalone downloads give users more flexibility by allowing them to install a specific version of Nethermind, choose the installation location, and prevent automatic updates.

Standalone downloads are available on [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/NethermindEth/nethermind/releases) and at [downloads.nethermind.io](https://downloads.nethermind.io) as ZIP archives for x64 and AArch64 (ARM64) CPU architectures for Linux, Windows, and macOS.

### Confuguring as a Linux service

To install Nethermind as a Linux service, see the [nethermind.service](https://github.com/NethermindEth/nethermind/blob/master/scripts/nethermind.service) unit file as an example.
As it's configured to run Nethermind as the specific user and group and looks for the executable in a predefined location, the following steps need to be fulfilled:

:::note
Any of these steps can be omitted by replacing them with corresponding changes in the unit file.
For instance, if you want to run Nethermind as a different user, change the `User` and `Group` options in the unit file.
:::

1. Create a new user and group:

 ```bash
  # Create a new user and group
  sudo useradd -m -s /bin/bash nethermind
  
  # Increase the maximum number of open files
  sudo bash -c 'echo "nethermind soft nofile 100000" > /etc/security/limits.d/nethermind.conf'
  sudo bash -c 'echo "nethermind hard nofile 100000" >> /etc/security/limits.d/nethermind.conf'
  
  # Switch to the nethermind user
  sudo su -l nethermind
  
  # Create required directories
  # Note that the home directory (~) is now /home/nethermind
  mkdir ~/build
  mkdir ~/data
  ```
2. [Download Nethermind](#standalone-downloads) and extract the package contents to the `~/build` directory.
3. Configure options in the `~/.env` file:
  ```bash title="~/.env"
  # Required
  NETHERMIND_CONFIG="mainnet"

  # Optional
  NETHERMIND_HEALTHCHECKSCONFIG_ENABLED="true" 
  ```

Now, let's set up the Linux service:

```bash
# Download the unit file
curl -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NethermindEth/nethermind/master/scripts/nethermind.service -o nethermind.service

# Move the unit file to the systemd directory
sudo mv nethermind.service /etc/systemd/system

# Reload the systemd daemon
sudo systemctl daemon-reload

# Start the service
sudo systemctl start nethermind

# Optionally, enable the service to start on boot
sudo systemctl enable nethermind
```

To ensure the service is up and running, check its status as follows:

```bash
sudo systemctl status nethermind
```

To monitor the Nethermind output, run:

```bash
journalctl -u nethermind -f
```

For further instructions, see [Running Nethermind](#running).

## Docker container

The Docker images of Nethermind are available on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/nethermind/nethermind).

This registry provides production versions of Nethermind with two types of tags:

- `nethermind/nethermind:latest` is the latest version of Nethermind (the default tag)
- `nethermind/nethermind:<version>` is the specific version of Nethermind where `<version>` is the actual version of Nethermind.

To download the image from the registry, run:

```bash
docker pull nethermind/nethermind
```

Starting a node is achieved by:

```bash
docker run -it nethermind/nethermind
```

The following ports are exposed by default:

- `8545`: TCP, for the JSON-RPC interface
- `8551`: TCP, for the consensus client JSON-RPC interface
- `30303`: TCP and UDP, for P2P networking

:::tip
It's highly recommended to mount data volumes as the Nethermind's data directories to ensure the synced data is preserved between the container restarts.
:::

The following volume mount points are available by default:

- `/nethermind/nethermind_db`: used to store the database
- `/nethermind/logs`: used to store the logs
- `/nethermind/keystore`: used to store the keys

To mount separate volumes for each directory listed above, run:

```bash
docker run -it \
  --mount type=bind,source=path/to/db,target=/nethermind/nethermind_db \
  --mount type=bind,source=path/to/logs,target=/nethermind/logs \
  --mount type=bind,source=path/to/keystore,target=/nethermind/keystore \
  nethermind/nethermind
```

Alternatively, a single volume can be specified as the Nethermind data directory as follows:

```bash
docker run -it \
  --mount type=bind,source=path/to/data_dir,target=/nethermind/data_dir \
  nethermind/nethermind -dd /nethermind/data_dir
```

Note that any Nethermind-specific configuration option can be specified at the end. For instance, the `-dd` option in this case. For further instructions, see [Running Nethermind](#running).

To build the Docker image yourself, see [Building Docker image](../developers/building-from-source.md#bulding-docker-image).

## Running Nethermind {#running}

:::warning Important
- A [consensus client](consensus-clients.md) of your choice must be running before you start Nethermind.
- Please check out the [security considerations](../fundamentals/security.md) before using Nethermind for critical operations.
:::

Nethermind is mainly controlled by command line options (aka arguments or flags).

The full list of options can be displayed by running:

```bash
nethermind -h
```

For instance, to launch the client with the default configuration for the Mainnet and custom data directory, run:

```bash
nethermind -c mainnet -dd path/to/data/dir
```

For detailed info about the available configuration options, see [Configuration](../fundamentals/configuration.md).

### Supported networks

To run Nethermind on a specific network, use the [`-c, --config`](../fundamentals/configuration.md#basic-options) command line option. Currently, the following networks are supported out of the box:

- **Ethereum**
    - [Mainnet](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/networks/#ethereum-mainnet)
    - [Goerli](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/networks/#goerli) (testnet)
    - [Holesky](https://github.com/eth-clients/holesky) (testnet)
    - [Sepolia](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/networks/#sepolia) (testnet)
- **Base**
    - [Base Mainnet](https://docs.base.org/network-information/#base-mainnet)
    - [Base Goerli](https://docs.base.org/network-information/#base-testnet-goerli) (testnet)
    - [Base Sepolia](https://docs.base.org/network-information/#base-testnet-sepolia) (testnet)
- **Energy Web Chain**
    - [Energy Web](https://energy-web-foundation.gitbook.io/energy-web/ew-dos-technology-components-2023/trust-layer-energy-web-chain)
    - [Volta](https://energy-web-foundation.gitbook.io/energy-web/ew-dos-technology-components-2023/trust-layer-energy-web-chain/ewc-guides-and-tutorials/testnet-and-mainnet#developing-on-volta-test-network) (testnet)
- **Gnosis Chain**
    - [Gnosis](https://docs.gnosischain.com/about/networks/mainnet)
    - [Chiado](https://docs.gnosischain.com/about/networks/chiado) (testnet)
- **Optimism**
    - [OP Mainnet](https://community.optimism.io/docs/useful-tools/networks/#op-mainnet)
    - [OP Goerli](https://community.optimism.io/docs/useful-tools/networks/#op-goerli) (testnet)
    - [OP Sepolia](https://community.optimism.io/docs/useful-tools/networks/#op-sepolia) (testnet)

Commit message:

Add tip for package managers

docs/get-started/installing-nethermind.md, after:

---
title: Installing Nethermind
sidebar_position: 2
---

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs";
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem";

Nethermind can be installed in several ways:

- [Via a package manager](#package-managers)
- [As a standalone download](#standalone-downloads)
- [As a Docker container](#docker-container)
- [By building from source code](../developers/building-from-source.md)

## Prerequisites

:::info
Does not apply to Docker distributions.
:::

Before installing Nethermind, your specific platform might need the following prerequisites.

<Tabs groupId="os">
<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">

On Linux systems, Snappy is a required dependency. Below are the installation instructions for the supported distros.

#### Ubuntu and Debian-based distros

```bash
sudo apt-get install libsnappy-dev
```

#### CentOS, Fedora, and RHEL-like distros

```bash
sudo dnf install snappy
```

On RHEL-like systems, Nethermind also requires the following symlink to bzip2:

```bash
sudo ln -s `find /usr/lib64/ -type f -name "libbz2.so.1*"` /usr/lib64/libbz2.so.1.0
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="windows" label="Windows">

Although the modern versions of Windows are bundled with a recent version of [Microsoft Visual C++ Redistributable](https://aka.ms/vcredist), in some cases, it may need an update:

```powershell
winget install Microsoft.VCRedist.2015+.x64
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="macos" label="macOS">None</TabItem>
</Tabs>

## Package managers

Package managers are the easiest and fastest way of installing Nethermind.

:::tip
If you're using a package manager, it's highly recommended to set the `-dd, --datadir` flag to specify the data directory. Otherwise, Nethermind will use the default data directory where the package is installed, which may not be preserved on further updates or uninstall.
:::

<Tabs groupId="os">
<TabItem value="linux" label="Linux">

On Ubuntu and other Linux distros supporting PPA, Nethermind can be installed via Launchpad PPA.

First, add the Nethermind repository:

```bash
sudo add-apt-repository ppa:nethermindeth/nethermind
```

:::note
If the command is not found, run:

```bash
sudo apt-get install software-properties-common
```
:::

Then, install Nethermind as follows:

```bash
sudo apt-get update
sudo apt-get install nethermind
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="windows" label="Windows">

On Windows, Nethermind can be installed via Windows Package Manager as follows:

```powershell
winget install nethermind
```

</TabItem>
<TabItem value="macos" label="macOS">

On macOS, Nethermind can be installed via Homebrew.

First, add the Nethermind repository:

```sh
brew tap nethermindeth/nethermind
```

Then, install Nethermind as follows:

```sh
brew install nethermind
```

</TabItem>
</Tabs>

For further instructions, see [Running Nethermind](#running).

## Standalone downloads

Standalone downloads give users more flexibility by allowing them to install a specific version of Nethermind, choose the installation location, and prevent automatic updates.

Standalone downloads are available on [GitHub Releases](https://github.com/NethermindEth/nethermind/releases) and at [downloads.nethermind.io](https://downloads.nethermind.io) as ZIP archives for x64 and AArch64 (ARM64) CPU architectures for Linux, Windows, and macOS.

### Confuguring as a Linux service

To install Nethermind as a Linux service, see the [nethermind.service](https://github.com/NethermindEth/nethermind/blob/master/scripts/nethermind.service) unit file as an example.
As it's configured to run Nethermind as the specific user and group and looks for the executable in a predefined location, the following steps need to be fulfilled:

:::note
Any of these steps can be omitted by replacing them with corresponding changes in the unit file.
For instance, if you want to run Nethermind as a different user, change the `User` and `Group` options in the unit file.
:::

1. Create a new user and group:

 ```bash
  # Create a new user and group
  sudo useradd -m -s /bin/bash nethermind
  
  # Increase the maximum number of open files
  sudo bash -c 'echo "nethermind soft nofile 100000" > /etc/security/limits.d/nethermind.conf'
  sudo bash -c 'echo "nethermind hard nofile 100000" >> /etc/security/limits.d/nethermind.conf'
  
  # Switch to the nethermind user
  sudo su -l nethermind
  
  # Create required directories
  # Note that the home directory (~) is now /home/nethermind
  mkdir ~/build
  mkdir ~/data
  ```
2. [Download Nethermind](#standalone-downloads) and extract the package contents to the `~/build` directory.
3. Configure options in the `~/.env` file:
  ```bash title="~/.env"
  # Required
  NETHERMIND_CONFIG="mainnet"

  # Optional
  NETHERMIND_HEALTHCHECKSCONFIG_ENABLED="true" 
  ```

Now, let's set up the Linux service:

```bash
# Download the unit file
curl -L https://raw.githubusercontent.com/NethermindEth/nethermind/master/scripts/nethermind.service -o nethermind.service

# Move the unit file to the systemd directory
sudo mv nethermind.service /etc/systemd/system

# Reload the systemd daemon
sudo systemctl daemon-reload

# Start the service
sudo systemctl start nethermind

# Optionally, enable the service to start on boot
sudo systemctl enable nethermind
```

To ensure the service is up and running, check its status as follows:

```bash
sudo systemctl status nethermind
```

To monitor the Nethermind output, run:

```bash
journalctl -u nethermind -f
```

For further instructions, see [Running Nethermind](#running).

## Docker container

The Docker images of Nethermind are available on [Docker Hub](https://hub.docker.com/r/nethermind/nethermind).

This registry provides production versions of Nethermind with two types of tags:

- `nethermind/nethermind:latest` is the latest version of Nethermind (the default tag)
- `nethermind/nethermind:<version>` is the specific version of Nethermind where `<version>` is the actual version of Nethermind.

To download the image from the registry, run:

```bash
docker pull nethermind/nethermind
```

Starting a node is achieved by:

```bash
docker run -it nethermind/nethermind
```

The following ports are exposed by default:

- `8545`: TCP, for the JSON-RPC interface
- `8551`: TCP, for the consensus client JSON-RPC interface
- `30303`: TCP and UDP, for P2P networking

:::tip
It's highly recommended to mount data volumes as the Nethermind's data directories to ensure the synced data is preserved between the container restarts.
:::

The following volume mount points are available by default:

- `/nethermind/nethermind_db`: used to store the database
- `/nethermind/logs`: used to store the logs
- `/nethermind/keystore`: used to store the keys

To mount separate volumes for each directory listed above, run:

```bash
docker run -it \
  --mount type=bind,source=path/to/db,target=/nethermind/nethermind_db \
  --mount type=bind,source=path/to/logs,target=/nethermind/logs \
  --mount type=bind,source=path/to/keystore,target=/nethermind/keystore \
  nethermind/nethermind
```

Alternatively, a single volume can be specified as the Nethermind data directory as follows:

```bash
docker run -it \
  --mount type=bind,source=path/to/data_dir,target=/nethermind/data_dir \
  nethermind/nethermind -dd /nethermind/data_dir
```

Note that any Nethermind-specific configuration option can be specified at the end. For instance, the `-dd` option in this case. For further instructions, see [Running Nethermind](#running).

To build the Docker image yourself, see [Building Docker image](../developers/building-from-source.md#bulding-docker-image).

## Running Nethermind {#running}

:::warning Important
- A [consensus client](consensus-clients.md) of your choice must be running before you start Nethermind.
- Please check out the [security considerations](../fundamentals/security.md) before using Nethermind for critical operations.
:::

Nethermind is mainly controlled by command line options (aka arguments or flags).

The full list of options can be displayed by running:

```bash
nethermind -h
```

For instance, to launch the client with the default configuration for the Mainnet and custom data directory, run:

```bash
nethermind -c mainnet -dd path/to/data/dir
```

For detailed info about the available configuration options, see [Configuration](../fundamentals/configuration.md).

### Supported networks

To run Nethermind on a specific network, use the [`-c, --config`](../fundamentals/configuration.md#basic-options) command line option. Currently, the following networks are supported out of the box:

- **Ethereum**
    - [Mainnet](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/networks/#ethereum-mainnet)
    - [Goerli](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/networks/#goerli) (testnet)
    - [Holesky](https://github.com/eth-clients/holesky) (testnet)
    - [Sepolia](https://ethereum.org/en/developers/docs/networks/#sepolia) (testnet)
- **Base**
    - [Base Mainnet](https://docs.base.org/network-information/#base-mainnet)
    - [Base Goerli](https://docs.base.org/network-information/#base-testnet-goerli) (testnet)
    - [Base Sepolia](https://docs.base.org/network-information/#base-testnet-sepolia) (testnet)
- **Energy Web Chain**
    - [Energy Web](https://energy-web-foundation.gitbook.io/energy-web/ew-dos-technology-components-2023/trust-layer-energy-web-chain)
    - [Volta](https://energy-web-foundation.gitbook.io/energy-web/ew-dos-technology-components-2023/trust-layer-energy-web-chain/ewc-guides-and-tutorials/testnet-and-mainnet#developing-on-volta-test-network) (testnet)
- **Gnosis Chain**
    - [Gnosis](https://docs.gnosischain.com/about/networks/mainnet)
    - [Chiado](https://docs.gnosischain.com/about/networks/chiado) (testnet)
- **Optimism**
    - [OP Mainnet](https://community.optimism.io/docs/useful-tools/networks/#op-mainnet)
    - [OP Goerli](https://community.optimism.io/docs/useful-tools/networks/#op-goerli) (testnet)
    - [OP Sepolia](https://community.optimism.io/docs/useful-tools/networks/#op-sepolia) (testnet)
