ethereum-client/logging-configuration.md, before:

# Logging Configuration

## Log config file location

Logging in Nethermind is done via NLog library that can be configured by editing the NLog.config file.

| Environment Type                                                                  | NLog.config location                                                   |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| built from src - Debug mode                                                       | src\Nethermind\Nethermind.Runner\bin\Debug\netcoreapp3.1\NLog.config   |
| built from src - Release mode                                                     | src\Nethermind\Nethermind.Runner\bin\Release\netcoreapp3.1\NLog.config |
| PPA                                                                               | /usr/share/nethermind/NLog.config                                      |
| Docker                                                                            | /nethermind/NLog.config                                                |
| from [downloads page](https://downloads.nethermind.io)                            | top level directory after unzipping the package                        |
| from [GitHub releases page](https://github.com/NethermindEth/nethermind/releases) | top level directory after unzipping the package                        |
| dAppNode                                                                          | ? \[to be documented]                                                  |

## Log config file syntax

Detailed NLog configuration options can be found here: [https://nlog-project.org/config/](https://nlog-project.org/config/)

## Global logging override

Additionally there are global logging override that you can use temporarily:

| Command line override                            | Log level |
| ------------------------------------------------ | --------- |
| ./Nethermind.Runner --config mainnet --log TRACE | TRACE     |
| ./Nethermind.Runner --config mainnet --log DEBUG | DEBUG     |
| ./Nethermind.Runner --config mainnet --log INFO  | INFO      |
| ./Nethermind.Runner --config mainnet --log WARN  | WARN      |
| ./Nethermind.Runner --config mainnet --log ERROR | ERROR     |

## JSON RPC logging level

This can be done by including these lines in the logging configuration file:

```
<logger name="JsonRpc.*" minlevel="Error" writeTo="file-async"/>
<logger name="JsonRpc.*" minlevel="Error" writeTo="auto-colored-console-async" final="true"/>
<logger name="JsonRpc.*" final="true"/>
```

## Enterprise Logging

See how to configure Seq [here](https://docs.nethermind.io/nethermind/enterprise/seq)

Commit message:

GitBook: [#532] Add description of configuration options for adding log rules

ethereum-client/logging-configuration.md, after:

# Logging Configuration

## Log config file location

Logging in Nethermind is done via NLog library that can be configured by editing the NLog.config file.

| Environment Type                                                                  | NLog.config location                                                   |
| --------------------------------------------------------------------------------- | ---------------------------------------------------------------------- |
| built from src - Debug mode                                                       | src\Nethermind\Nethermind.Runner\bin\Debug\netcoreapp3.1\NLog.config   |
| built from src - Release mode                                                     | src\Nethermind\Nethermind.Runner\bin\Release\netcoreapp3.1\NLog.config |
| PPA                                                                               | /usr/share/nethermind/NLog.config                                      |
| Docker                                                                            | /nethermind/NLog.config                                                |
| from [downloads page](https://downloads.nethermind.io)                            | top level directory after unzipping the package                        |
| from [GitHub releases page](https://github.com/NethermindEth/nethermind/releases) | top level directory after unzipping the package                        |
| dAppNode                                                                          | ? \[to be documented]                                                  |

## Log config file syntax

Detailed NLog configuration options can be found here: [https://nlog-project.org/config/](https://nlog-project.org/config/)

## Config or CLI log rules

Simple logging rules can be added through configuration file or command line argument.

For example this would add `Trace` level logs to any logger under `Synchronization` module and `Debug` level logs for `BlockTree` from `Blockchain` module:\
`--Init.LogRules Synchronization.*:Trace;Blockchain.BlockTree:Debug`

## Global logging override

Additionally there are global logging override that you can use temporarily:

| Command line override                            | Log level |
| ------------------------------------------------ | --------- |
| ./Nethermind.Runner --config mainnet --log TRACE | TRACE     |
| ./Nethermind.Runner --config mainnet --log DEBUG | DEBUG     |
| ./Nethermind.Runner --config mainnet --log INFO  | INFO      |
| ./Nethermind.Runner --config mainnet --log WARN  | WARN      |
| ./Nethermind.Runner --config mainnet --log ERROR | ERROR     |

## JSON RPC logging level

This can be done by including these lines in the logging configuration file:

```
<logger name="JsonRpc.*" minlevel="Error" writeTo="file-async"/>
<logger name="JsonRpc.*" minlevel="Error" writeTo="auto-colored-console-async" final="true"/>
<logger name="JsonRpc.*" final="true"/>
```

## Enterprise Logging

See how to configure Seq [here](https://docs.nethermind.io/nethermind/enterprise/seq)
