---
title: Metrics
sidebar_position: 0
toc_max_heading_level: 4
---

Currently, Nethermind provides the following options to monitor and collect metrics about itself:

- [Grafana and Prometheus](grafana-and-prometheus.md)
- [dotnet-counters](dotnet-counters.md)

### Parameters by namespace

<!--[start autogen]-->

<details>
<summary className="nd-details-heading">

#### Aura

</summary>
<p>

- **`nethermind_au_ra_step`**
  
  Current AuRa step

- **`nethermind_commit_hash_transaction`**
  
  RANDAO number of commit hash transactions

- **`nethermind_emit_initiate_change`**
  
  POSDAO number of emit init change transactions

- **`nethermind_reported_benign_misbehaviour`**
  
  Number of reported benign misbehaviour validators

- **`nethermind_reported_malicious_misbehaviour`**
  
  Number of reported malicious misbehaviour validators

- **`nethermind_reveal_number`**
  
  RANDAO number of reveal number transactions

- **`nethermind_sealed_transactions`**
  
  Number of sealed transactions generated by engine

- **`nethermind_validators_count`**
  
  Number of current AuRa validators


</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary className="nd-details-heading">

#### Blockchain

</summary>
<p>

- **`nethermind_best_known_block_number`**
  
  The estimated highest block available.

- **`nethermind_blockchain_height`**
  
  The current height of the canonical chain.

- **`nethermind_blocks`**
  
  Total number of blocks processed

- **`nethermind_blocks_sealed`**
  
  Total number of sealed blocks

- **`nethermind_failed_block_seals`**
  
  Total number of failed block seals

- **`nethermind_gas_limit`**
  
  Gas Limit for processed blocks

- **`nethermind_gas_used`**
  
  Gas Used in processed blocks

- **`nethermind_last_difficulty`**
  
  Difficulty of the last block

- **`nethermind_mgas`**
  
  Total MGas processed

- **`nethermind_processing_queue_size`**
  
  Number of blocks awaiting for processing.

- **`nethermind_recovery_queue_size`**
  
  Number of blocks awaiting for recovery of public keys from signatures.

- **`nethermind_reorganizations`**
  
  Total number of chain reorganizations

- **`nethermind_total_difficulty`**
  
  Total difficulty on the chain

- **`nethermind_transactions`**
  
  Total number of transactions processed


</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary className="nd-details-heading">

#### Db

</summary>
<p>

- **`nethermind_bad_blocks_db_reads`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of BadBlocks DB reads.

- **`nethermind_bad_blocks_db_writes`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of BadBlocks DB writes.

- **`nethermind_blob_transactions_db_reads`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of BlobTransactions DB reads.

- **`nethermind_blob_transactions_db_writes`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of BlobTransactions DB writes.

- **`nethermind_block_infos_db_reads`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of Block Infos DB reads.

- **`nethermind_block_infos_db_size`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Size of blockInfos DB in bytes

- **`nethermind_block_infos_db_writes`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of Block Infos DB writes.

- **`nethermind_block_number_db_reads`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of BlockNumbers DB reads.

- **`nethermind_block_number_db_writes`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of BlockNumbers DB writes.

- **`nethermind_blocks_db_reads`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of Blocks DB reads.

- **`nethermind_blocks_db_size`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Size of blocks DB in bytes

- **`nethermind_blocks_db_writes`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of Blocks DB writes.

- **`nethermind_bloom_db_reads`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of Bloom DB reads.

- **`nethermind_bloom_db_size`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Size of bloom DB in bytes

- **`nethermind_bloom_db_writes`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of Bloom DB writes.

- **`nethermind_c_h_t_db_reads`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of CHT DB reads.

- **`nethermind_cht_db_size`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Size of cht DB in bytes

- **`nethermind_c_h_t_db_writes`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of CHT DB writes.

- **`nethermind_code_db_cache`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of Code DB cache reads.

- **`nethermind_code_db_reads`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of Code DB reads.

- **`nethermind_code_db_size`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Size of code DB in bytes

- **`nethermind_code_db_writes`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of Code DB writes.

- **`nethermind_db_block_cache_memory_size`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Size of unmanaged memory for DB block caches in bytes

- **`nethermind_db_block_cache_size`**
  
  Database block cache size per database

- **`nethermind_db_compaction_stats`**
  
  Metrics extracted from RocksDB Compaction Stats

- **`nethermind_db_index_filter_memory_size`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Size of unmanaged memory for DB indexes and filters in bytes

- **`nethermind_db_index_filter_size`**
  
  Database index and filter size per database

- **`nethermind_db_memtable_memory_size`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Size of unmanaged memory for DB memtables in bytes

- **`nethermind_db_memtable_size`**
  
  Database memtable per database

- **`nethermind_db_reads`**
  
  Database reads per database

- **`nethermind_db_size`**
  
  Database size per database

- **`nethermind_db_stats`**
  
  Metrics extracted from RocksDB Compaction Stats and DB Statistics

- **`nethermind_db_total_memory_size`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Size of total unmanaged memory for DB in bytes

- **`nethermind_db_writes`**
  
  Database writes per database

- **`nethermind_header_db_reads`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of Headers DB reads.

- **`nethermind_header_db_writes`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of Headers DB writes.

- **`nethermind_headers_db_size`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Size of headers DB in bytes

- **`nethermind_metadata_db_reads`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of Metadata DB reads.

- **`nethermind_metadata_db_size`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Size of metadata DB in bytes

- **`nethermind_metadata_db_writes`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of Metadata DB writes.

- **`nethermind_other_db_reads`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of other DB reads.

- **`nethermind_other_db_writes`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of other DB writes.

- **`nethermind_receipts_db_reads`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of Receipts DB reads.

- **`nethermind_receipts_db_size`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Size of receipts DB in bytes

- **`nethermind_receipts_db_writes`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of Receipts DB writes.

- **`nethermind_state_db_pruning`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Indicator if StadeDb is being pruned.

- **`nethermind_state_db_reads`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of State DB reads.

- **`nethermind_state_db_size`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Size of state DB in bytes

- **`nethermind_state_db_writes`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of State DB writes.

- **`nethermind_state_tree_reads`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of State Trie reads.

- **`nethermind_state_tree_writes`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of Blocks Trie writes.

- **`nethermind_storage_tree_reads`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of storage trie reads.

- **`nethermind_storage_tree_writes`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of storage trie writes.

- **`nethermind_witness_db_reads`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of Witness DB reads.

- **`nethermind_witness_db_size`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Size of witness DB in bytes

- **`nethermind_witness_db_writes`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of Witness DB writes.


</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary className="nd-details-heading">

#### Evm

</summary>
<p>

- **`nethermind_blockhash_opcode`**
  
  Number of BLOCKHASH opcodes executed.

- **`nethermind_bn254_add_precompile`**
  
  Number of BN254_ADD precompile calls.

- **`nethermind_bn254_mul_precompile`**
  
  Number of BN254_MUL precompile calls.

- **`nethermind_bn254_pairing_precompile`**
  
  Number of BN254_PAIRING precompile calls.

- **`nethermind_calls`**
  
  Number of calls to other contracts.

- **`nethermind_creates`**
  
  Number of contract create calls.

- **`nethermind_ec_recover_precompile`**
  
  Number of EC_RECOVERY precompile calls.

- **`nethermind_empty_calls`**
  
  Number of calls made to addresses without code.

- **`nethermind_evm_exceptions`**
  
  Number of EVM exceptions thrown by contracts.

- **`nethermind_m_copy_opcode`**
  
  Number of MCOPY opcodes executed.

- **`nethermind_mod_exp_opcode`**
  
  Number of MODEXP precompiles executed.

- **`nethermind_mod_exp_precompile`**
  
  Number of MODEXP precompile calls.

- **`nethermind_point_evaluation_precompile`**
  
  Number of Point Evaluation precompile calls.

- **`nethermind_ripemd160_precompile`**
  
  Number of RIPEMD160 precompile calls.

- **`nethermind_self_destructs`**
  
  Number of SELFDESTRUCT calls.

- **`nethermind_sha256_precompile`**
  
  Number of SHA256 precompile calls.

- **`nethermind_sload_opcode`**
  
  Number of SLOAD opcodes executed.

- **`nethermind_sstore_opcode`**
  
  Number of SSTORE opcodes executed.

- **`nethermind_tload_opcode`**
  
  Number of TLOAD opcodes executed.

- **`nethermind_tstore_opcode`**
  
  Number of TSTORE opcodes executed.


</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary className="nd-details-heading">

#### JsonRpc

</summary>
<p>

- **`nethermind_json_rpc_bytes_received`**
  
  Number of JSON RPC bytes received.

- **`nethermind_json_rpc_bytes_sent`**
  
  Number of JSON RPC bytes sent.

- **`nethermind_json_rpc_errors`**
  
  Number of JSON RPC requests processed with errors.

- **`nethermind_json_rpc_invalid_requests`**
  
  Number of JSON RPC requests that were invalid.

- **`nethermind_json_rpc_request_deserialization_failures`**
  
  Number of JSON RPC requests that failed JSON deserialization.

- **`nethermind_json_rpc_requests`**
  
  Total number of JSON RPC requests received by the node.

- **`nethermind_json_rpc_successes`**
  
  Number of JSON RPC requests processed successfully.


</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary className="nd-details-heading">

#### Merge

</summary>
<p>

- **`nethermind_forkchoice_upded_execution_time`**
  
  ForkchoiceUpded request execution time

- **`nethermind_get_payload_requests`**
  
  Number of GetPayload Requests

- **`nethermind_new_payload_execution_time`**
  
  NewPayload request execution time

- **`nethermind_number_of_transactions_in_get_payload`**
  
  Number of Transactions included in the Last GetPayload Request


</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary className="nd-details-heading">

#### Network

</summary>
<p>

- **`nethermind_already_connected_disconnects`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of received disconnects due to already connected

- **`nethermind_breach_of_protocol_disconnects`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of received disconnects due to breach of protocol

- **`nethermind_client_quitting_disconnects`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of received disconnects due to client quitting

- **`nethermind_disconnect_requested_disconnects`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of received disconnects due to disconnect requested

- **`nethermind_eth62_block_bodies_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.62 BlockBodies messages received

- **`nethermind_eth62_block_headers_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.62 BlockHeaders messages received

- **`nethermind_eth62_get_block_bodies_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.62 GetBlockBodies messages received

- **`nethermind_eth62_get_block_headers_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.62 GetBlockHeaders messages received

- **`nethermind_eth62_new_block_hashes_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.62 NewBlockHashes messages received

- **`nethermind_eth62_new_block_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.62 NewBlock messages received

- **`nethermind_eth62_transactions_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.62 Transactions messages received

- **`nethermind_eth63_get_node_data_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.63 GetNodeData messages received

- **`nethermind_eth63_get_receipts_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.63 GetReceipts messages received

- **`nethermind_eth63_node_data_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.63 NodeData messages received

- **`nethermind_eth63_receipts_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.63 Receipts messages received

- **`nethermind_eth65_get_pooled_transactions_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.65 GetPooledTransactions messages received

- **`nethermind_eth65_get_pooled_transactions_requested`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.65 GetPooledTransactions messages sent

- **`nethermind_eth65_new_pooled_transaction_hashes_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.65 NewPooledTransactionHashes messages received

- **`nethermind_eth65_new_pooled_transaction_hashes_sent`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.65 NewPooledTransactionHashes messages sent

- **`nethermind_eth65_pooled_transactions_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.65 PooledTransactions messages received

- **`nethermind_eth66_block_bodies_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.66 BlockBodies messages received

- **`nethermind_eth66_block_headers_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.66 BlockHeaders messages received

- **`nethermind_eth66_get_block_bodies_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.66 GetBlockBodies messages received

- **`nethermind_eth66_get_block_headers_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.66 GetBlockHeaders messages received

- **`nethermind_eth66_get_node_data_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.66 GetNodeData messages received

- **`nethermind_eth66_get_pooled_transactions_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.66 GetPooledTransactions messages received

- **`nethermind_eth66_get_pooled_transactions_requested`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.66 GetPooledTransactions messages sent

- **`nethermind_eth66_get_receipts_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.66 GetReceipts messages received

- **`nethermind_eth66_node_data_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.66 NodeData messages received

- **`nethermind_eth66_pooled_transactions_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.66 PooledTransactions messages received

- **`nethermind_eth66_receipts_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.66 Receipts messages received

- **`nethermind_eth68_new_pooled_transaction_hashes_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.68 NewPooledTransactionHashes messages received

- **`nethermind_eth68_new_pooled_transaction_hashes_sent`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth.68 NewPooledTransactionHashes messages sent

- **`nethermind_get_node_data_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of GetNodeData messages received via NodeData protocol

- **`nethermind_handshakes`**
  
  Number of devp2p handshakes

- **`nethermind_handshake_timeouts`**
  
  Number of devp2p handshake timeouts

- **`nethermind_hellos_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of devp2p hello messages received

- **`nethermind_hellos_sent`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of devp2p hello messages sent

- **`nethermind_incoming_connections`**
  
  Number of incoming connection.

- **`nethermind_incoming_p2_p_message_bytes`**
  
  Bytes of incoming p2p packets.

- **`nethermind_incoming_p2_p_messages`**
  
  Number of incoming p2p packets.

- **`nethermind_incompatible_p2_p_disconnects`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of received disconnects due to incompatible devp2p version

- **`nethermind_les_statuses_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of les status messages received

- **`nethermind_les_statuses_sent`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of les status messages sent

- **`nethermind_local_already_connected_disconnects`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of initiated disconnects due to already connected

- **`nethermind_local_breach_of_protocol_disconnects`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of sent disconnects due to breach of protocol

- **`nethermind_local_client_quitting_disconnects`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of initiated disconnects due to client quitting

- **`nethermind_local_disconnect_requested_disconnects`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of initiated disconnects due to disconnect requested

- **`nethermind_local_disconnects_total`**
  
  Number of local disconnects

- **`nethermind_local_incompatible_p2_p_disconnects`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of initiated disconnects due to incompatible devp2p

- **`nethermind_local_null_node_identity_disconnects`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of initiated disconnects due to missing node identity

- **`nethermind_local_other_disconnects`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of initiated disconnects due to other reason

- **`nethermind_local_receive_message_timeout_disconnects`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of initiated disconnects due to request timeout

- **`nethermind_local_same_as_self_disconnects`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of initiated disconnects due to connection to self

- **`nethermind_local_tcp_subsystem_error_disconnects`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of initiated disconnects due to TCP error

- **`nethermind_local_too_many_peers_disconnects`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of initiated disconnects due to breach of protocol

- **`nethermind_local_unexpected_identity_disconnects`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of initiated disconnects due to node identity info mismatch

- **`nethermind_local_useless_peer_disconnects`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of sent disconnects due to useless peer

- **`nethermind_node_data_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of NodeData messages received via NodeData protocol

- **`nethermind_null_node_identity_disconnects`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of received disconnects due to missing peer identity

- **`nethermind_other_disconnects`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of received disconnects due to other reasons

- **`nethermind_outgoing_connections`**
  
  Number of outgoing connection.

- **`nethermind_outgoing_p2_p_message_bytes`**
  
  Bytes of outgoing p2p packets.

- **`nethermind_outgoing_p2_p_messages`**
  
  Number of outgoing p2p packets.

- **`nethermind_peer_limit`**
  
  The maximum number of peers this node allows to connect.

- **`nethermind_receive_message_timeout_disconnects`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of received disconnects due to request timeouts

- **`nethermind_remote_disconnects_total`**
  
  Number of remote disconnects

- **`nethermind_same_as_self_disconnects`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of received disconnects due to connecting to self

- **`nethermind_snap_account_range_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of SNAP AccountRange messages received

- **`nethermind_snap_byte_codes_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of SNAP ByteCodes messages received

- **`nethermind_snap_get_account_range_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of SNAP GetAccountRange messages received

- **`nethermind_snap_get_account_range_sent`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of SNAP GetAccountRange messages sent

- **`nethermind_snap_get_byte_codes_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of SNAP GetByteCodes messages received

- **`nethermind_snap_get_byte_codes_sent`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of SNAP GetByteCodes messages sent

- **`nethermind_snap_get_storage_ranges_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of SNAP GetStorageRanges messages received

- **`nethermind_snap_get_storage_ranges_sent`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of SNAP GetStorageRanges messages sent

- **`nethermind_snap_get_trie_nodes_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of SNAP GetTrieNodes messages received

- **`nethermind_snap_get_trie_nodes_sent`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of SNAP GetTrieNodes messages sent

- **`nethermind_snap_storage_ranges_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of SNAP StorageRanges messages received

- **`nethermind_snap_trie_nodes_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of SNAP TrieNodes messages received

- **`nethermind_statuses_received`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth status messages received

- **`nethermind_statuses_sent`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of eth status messages sent

- **`nethermind_tcp_subsystem_error_disconnects`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of disconnects due to TCP error

- **`nethermind_too_many_peers_disconnects`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of received disconnects due to too many peers

- **`nethermind_unexpected_identity_disconnects`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of received disconnects due to peer identity information mismatch

- **`nethermind_useless_peer_disconnects`**
  
  _Deprecated._ Number of received disconnects due to useless peer


</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary className="nd-details-heading">

#### Pruning

</summary>
<p>

- **`nethermind_cached_nodes_count`**
  
  Nodes that are currently kept in cache (either persisted or not)

- **`nethermind_committed_nodes_count`**
  
  Nodes that have been committed since the session start. These nodes may have been pruned, persisted or replaced.

- **`nethermind_deep_pruned_persisted_nodes_count`**
  
  Nodes that have been removed from the cache during deep pruning because they have been persisted before.

- **`nethermind_deep_pruning_time`**
  
  Time taken by the last deep pruning.

- **`nethermind_last_persisted_block_number`**
  
  Last persisted block number (snapshot).

- **`nethermind_loaded_from_cache_nodes_count`**
  
  Number of reads from the node cache.

- **`nethermind_loaded_from_db_nodes_count`**
  
  Number of DB reads.

- **`nethermind_loaded_from_rlp_cache_nodes_count`**
  
  Number of reads from the RLP cache.

- **`nethermind_memory_used_by_cache`**
  
  Estimated memory used by cache.

- **`nethermind_persisted_node_count`**
  
  Nodes that have been persisted since the session start.

- **`nethermind_pruned_persisted_nodes_count`**
  
  Nodes that have been removed from the cache during pruning because they have been persisted before.

- **`nethermind_pruned_transient_nodes_count`**
  
  Nodes that have been removed from the cache during pruning because they were no longer needed.

- **`nethermind_pruning_time`**
  
  Time taken by the last pruning.

- **`nethermind_removed_node_count`**
  
  Nodes that was removed via live pruning.

- **`nethermind_replaced_nodes_count`**
  
  Number of nodes that have been exactly the same as other nodes in the cache when committing.

- **`nethermind_snapshot_persistence_time`**
  
  Time taken by the last snapshot persistence.


</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary className="nd-details-heading">

#### Runner

</summary>
<p>

- **`nethermind_version`**
  
  Version number


</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary className="nd-details-heading">

#### Synchronization

</summary>
<p>

- **`nethermind_sync_peers`**
  
  Number of sync peers.


</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary className="nd-details-heading">

#### Trie

</summary>
<p>

- **`nethermind_tree_node_hash_calculations`**
  
  Number of trie node hash calculations.

- **`nethermind_tree_node_rlp_decodings`**
  
  Number of trie node RLP decodings.

- **`nethermind_tree_node_rlp_encodings`**
  
  Number of trie node RLP encodings.


</p>
</details>

<details>
<summary className="nd-details-heading">

#### TxPool

</summary>
<p>

- **`nethermind_blobs_in_block`**
  
  Number of blobs in the block.

- **`nethermind_blob_transaction_count`**
  
  Number of blob transactions in pool.

- **`nethermind_blob_transactions_in_block`**
  
  Number of blob transactions in the block.

- **`nethermind_dark_pool_ratio_level1`**
  
  Ratio of transactions in the block absent in hashCache.

- **`nethermind_dark_pool_ratio_level2`**
  
  Ratio of transactions in the block absent in pending transactions.

- **`nethermind_eip1559_transactions_ratio`**
  
  Ratio of 1559-type transactions in the block.

- **`nethermind_pending1559_transactions_added`**
  
  Number of pending 1559-type transactions added to transaction pool.

- **`nethermind_pending_blob_transactions_added`**
  
  Number of pending blob-type transactions added to transaction pool.

- **`nethermind_pending_transactions_added`**
  
  Number of pending transactions added to transaction pool.

- **`nethermind_pending_transactions_balance_below_value`**
  
  Number of pending transactions received that were ignored because balance is less than txn value.

- **`nethermind_pending_transactions_conflicting_tx_type`**
  
  Number of transactions rejected because of already pending tx of other type (allowed blob txs or others, not both at once).

- **`nethermind_pending_transactions_discarded`**
  
  Number of pending transactions received that were ignored.

- **`nethermind_pending_transactions_evicted`**
  
  Number of pending transactions evicted from transaction pool.

- **`nethermind_pending_transactions_gas_limit_too_high`**
  
  Number of pending transactions received that were ignored because the gas limit was to high for the block.

- **`nethermind_pending_transactions_hashes_received`**
  
  Number of hashes of pending transactions received from peers.

- **`nethermind_pending_transactions_hashes_sent`**
  
  Number of hashes of pending transactions broadcasted to peers.

- **`nethermind_pending_transactions_known`**
  
  Number of already known pending transactions.

- **`nethermind_pending_transactions_low_nonce`**
  
  Number of transactions with already used nonce.

- **`nethermind_pending_transactions_malformed`**
  
  Number of malformed transactions.

- **`nethermind_pending_transactions_nonce_gap`**
  
  Number of pending transactions received that were ignored because of not having preceding nonce of this sender in TxPool.

- **`nethermind_pending_transactions_nonce_too_far_in_future`**
  
  Number of transactions with nonce too far in future.

- **`nethermind_pending_transactions_not_supported_tx_type`**
  
  Number of pending transactions received that were ignored because of not supported transaction type.

- **`nethermind_pending_transactions_passed_filters_but_cannot_compete_on_fees`**
  
  Number of pending transactions received that were ignored after passing early rejections as balance is too low to compete with lowest effective fee in transaction pool.

- **`nethermind_pending_transactions_passed_filters_but_cannot_replace`**
  
  Number of pending transactions received that were trying to replace tx with the same sender and nonce and failed.

- **`nethermind_pending_transactions_received`**
  
  Number of pending transactions received from peers.

- **`nethermind_pending_transactions_sent`**
  
  Number of pending transactions broadcasted to peers.

- **`nethermind_pending_transactions_too_low_balance`**
  
  Number of pending transactions received that were ignored because balance too low for fee to be higher than the lowest fee in transaction pool.

- **`nethermind_pending_transactions_too_low_fee`**
  
  Number of pending transactions received that were ignored because of fee lower than the lowest fee in transaction pool.

- **`nethermind_pending_transactions_too_low_priority_fee`**
  
  Number of pending transactions received that were ignored because of priority fee lower than minimal requirement.

- **`nethermind_pending_transactions_unresolvable_sender`**
  
  Number of pending transactions received that were ignored because the sender couldn't be resolved.

- **`nethermind_pending_transactions_with_expensive_filtering`**
  
  Number of pending transactions that reached filters which are resource expensive

- **`nethermind_pending_transactions_zero_balance`**
  
  Number of pending transactions received that were ignored because balance is zero and cannot pay gas.

- **`nethermind_transaction_count`**
  
  Number of transactions in pool.


</p>
</details>

<!--[end autogen]-->
