docs/developers/building-from-source.md, before:

---
title: Building from source
sidebar_label: Building from source
sidebar_position: 0
---

The Nethermind's source code can be obtained from [our repository](https://github.com/NethermindEth/nethermind) on
GitHub:

```bash
git clone --recursive https://github.com/nethermindeth/nethermind.git
```

There are two options buiding Nethermind from source code:

* [Standalone binaries](#building-standalone-binaries)
* [Docker image](#bulding-docker-image)

## Building standalone binaries

### Prerequisites

To build Nethermind from source, install [.NET SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download) 8 or later.

:::tip
For a seamless experience, ensure your .NET SDK is up to date.
:::

### Building

To build both the client and tests, run the following command from the project's root directory:

```bash
dotnet build src/Nethermind/Nethermind.sln -c release
```

To simply run the client with a specific configuration without building tests, see below.

:::info
Before running the client or tests, ensure the
platform-specific [prerequisites](../get-started/installing-nethermind#prerequisites) are met.
:::

#### Running

Nethermind can be launched immediately without compiling explicitly (thus, the previous step can be skipped). The following command builds Nethermind if needed and runs it:

```bash
cd src/Nethermind/Nethermind.Runner
dotnet run -c release -- -c mainnet
```

All Nethermind-specific parameters can be specified after `--`. For instance, the command above specifies the Mainnet
configuration only.

The build artifacts can be found in the `src/Nethermind/artifacts/bin/Nethermind.Runner/release` directory. By default, the logs and database directories are located here as well.

For more info, see [Running a node](../get-started/running-node/running-node.md).

#### Testing

There are two test suites — Nethermind and Ethereum Foundation. Tests can be run with the following commands (the
initial step of the build is not required):

```bash
cd src/Nethermind

# Run Nethermind tests
dotnet test Nethermind.sln -c release

# Run Ethereum Foundation tests
dotnet test EthereumTests.sln -c release
```

## Bulding Docker image

Currently, there are three Docker images available in the project's root directory:

- `Dockerfile`: the default Nethermind Docker image.
- `Dockerfile.chiseled`: the rootless and [chiseled](https://ubuntu.com/engage/chiselled-ubuntu-images-for-containers) version of the Nethermind Docker image.
- `Dockerfile.diag`: the diagnostics image with pre-installed .NET diagnostic and tracing tools. This image is intended for internal use and is not distributed via public channels.

All Docker images have the following optional arguments:

- `BUILD_CONFIG`: the build configuration that is either `release` or `debug`. Defaults to `release`.
- `BUILD_TIMESTAMP`: the build time as a Unix timestamp. Defaults to the current time.
- `CI`: this is mostly used for CI builds determining whether the build is deterministic. Must be either `true` or `false`. Defaults to `false`.
- `COMMIT_HASH`: the Git commit hash to use as a part of the version string. Defaults to the latest commit hash.

Given the above, the following command builds the Nethermind chiseled Docker image from the project's root directory:

```bash
build_timestamp=$(date '+%s')
commit_hash=$(git rev-parse HEAD)

docker build . \
  -f Dockerfile.chiseled \
  -t nethermind-chiseled \
  --build-arg BUILD_TIMESTAMP=$build_timestamp \
  --build-arg CI=true \
  --build-arg COMMIT_HASH=$commit_hash
```

For quick testing images, the above arguments can be omitted if not needed:

```bash
docker build . -t nethermind
```

For more info about running Docker containers,
see [Installing Nethermind](../get-started/installing-nethermind#docker-container).

Commit message:

Improve the Docker image build guide

docs/developers/building-from-source.md, after:

---
title: Building from source
sidebar_label: Building from source
sidebar_position: 0
---

The Nethermind's source code can be obtained from [our repository](https://github.com/NethermindEth/nethermind) on
GitHub:

```bash
git clone --recursive https://github.com/nethermindeth/nethermind.git
```

There are two options buiding Nethermind from source code:

* [Standalone binaries](#building-standalone-binaries)
* [Docker image](#bulding-docker-image)

## Building standalone binaries

### Prerequisites

To build Nethermind from source, install [.NET SDK](https://dotnet.microsoft.com/en-us/download) 8 or later.

:::tip
For a seamless experience, ensure your .NET SDK is up to date.
:::

### Building

To build both the client and tests, run the following command from the project's root directory:

```bash
dotnet build src/Nethermind/Nethermind.sln -c release
```

To simply run the client with a specific configuration without building tests, see below.

:::info
Before running the client or tests, ensure the
platform-specific [prerequisites](../get-started/installing-nethermind#prerequisites) are met.
:::

#### Running

Nethermind can be launched immediately without compiling explicitly (thus, the previous step can be skipped). The following command builds Nethermind if needed and runs it:

```bash
cd src/Nethermind/Nethermind.Runner
dotnet run -c release -- -c mainnet
```

All Nethermind-specific parameters can be specified after `--`. For instance, the command above specifies the Mainnet
configuration only.

The build artifacts can be found in the `src/Nethermind/artifacts/bin/Nethermind.Runner/release` directory. By default, the logs and database directories are located here as well.

For more info, see [Running a node](../get-started/running-node/running-node.md).

#### Testing

There are two test suites — Nethermind and Ethereum Foundation. Tests can be run with the following commands (the
initial step of the build is not required):

```bash
cd src/Nethermind

# Run Nethermind tests
dotnet test Nethermind.sln -c release

# Run Ethereum Foundation tests
dotnet test EthereumTests.sln -c release
```

## Bulding Docker image

:::tip
Building a Nethermind Docker image does not require cloning the Nethermind source code since Docker can build it directly from the repository. For more information, see the [Docker Docs](https://docs.docker.com/build/concepts/context/#remote-context).
:::

Currently, there are three Docker images available in the project's root directory:

- `Dockerfile`: the default Nethermind Docker image.
- `Dockerfile.chiseled`: the rootless and [chiseled](https://ubuntu.com/engage/chiselled-ubuntu-images-for-containers) version of the Nethermind Docker image.
- `Dockerfile.diag`: an image with pre-installed .NET diagnostics and tracing tools. This image is intended for internal use and is not distributed via public channels.

All Docker images have the following optional arguments:

- `BUILD_CONFIG`: the build configuration that is either `release` or `debug`. Defaults to `release`.
- `BUILD_TIMESTAMP`: the build time as a Unix timestamp. Defaults to the current time.
- `CI`: this is mostly used for CI builds determining whether the build is deterministic. Must be either `true` or `false`. Defaults to `false`.
- `COMMIT_HASH`: the Git commit hash to use as a part of the version string. Defaults to the latest commit hash.

Given the above, the following command builds the Nethermind chiseled Docker image from the project's root directory:

```bash
build_timestamp=$(date '+%s')
commit_hash=$(git rev-parse HEAD)

docker build . \
  -f Dockerfile.chiseled \
  -t nethermind-chiseled \
  --build-arg BUILD_TIMESTAMP=$build_timestamp \
  --build-arg CI=true \
  --build-arg COMMIT_HASH=$commit_hash
```

For quick testing images, the above arguments can be omitted if not needed:

```bash
docker build . -t nethermind
```

An even faster approach is to build the image directly from the repository. The following command builds the version 1.27.0:

```bash
docker build https://github.com/nethermindeth/nethermind.git#1.27.0 -t nethermind
```

The above optional arguments can be specified as well if needed.

For more info about running Docker containers,
see [Installing Nethermind](../get-started/installing-nethermind#docker-container).
