ethereum-client/configuration/merge.md, before:

# Merge



| Property | Env Variable | Description | Default |
| :--- | :--- | :--- | :--- |
| Enabled | NETHERMIND_MERGECONFIG_ENABLED | Defines whether the Merge plugin is enabled bundles are allowed. | false |
| FeeRecipient | NETHERMIND_MERGECONFIG_FEERECIPIENT | Account to be used by the block author. If it is not specified the address zero will be used. | null |
| FinalTotalDifficulty | NETHERMIND_MERGECONFIG_FINALTOTALDIFFICULTY | Final total difficulty is total difficulty of the last PoW block. FinalTotalDifficulty >= TerminalTotalDifficulty. | null |
| SecondsPerSlot | NETHERMIND_MERGECONFIG_SECONDSPERSLOT | Seconds per slot. | 12 |
| TerminalBlockHash | NETHERMIND_MERGECONFIG_TERMINALBLOCKHASH | Terminal PoW block hash used for transition process. | null |
| TerminalBlockNumber | NETHERMIND_MERGECONFIG_TERMINALBLOCKNUMBER | Terminal PoW block number used for transition process. |  |
| TerminalTotalDifficulty | NETHERMIND_MERGECONFIG_TERMINALTOTALDIFFICULTY | Terminal total difficulty used for transition process. | null |

Commit message:

GitBook: [#502] Add merge config module

ethereum-client/configuration/merge.md, after:

# Merge module

Permalink

Cannot retrieve contributors at this time

| Property                | Env Variable                                     | Description                                                                                                        | Default |
| ----------------------- | ------------------------------------------------ | ------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------ | ------- |
| Enabled                 | NETHERMIND\_MERGECONFIG\_ENABLED                 | Defines whether the Merge plugin is enabled bundles are allowed.                                                   | false   |
| FeeRecipient            | NETHERMIND\_MERGECONFIG\_FEERECIPIENT            | Account to be used by the block author. If it is not specified the address zero will be used.                      | null    |
| FinalTotalDifficulty    | NETHERMIND\_MERGECONFIG\_FINALTOTALDIFFICULTY    | Final total difficulty is total difficulty of the last PoW block. FinalTotalDifficulty >= TerminalTotalDifficulty. | null    |
| SecondsPerSlot          | NETHERMIND\_MERGECONFIG\_SECONDSPERSLOT          | Seconds per slot.                                                                                                  | 12      |
| TerminalBlockHash       | NETHERMIND\_MERGECONFIG\_TERMINALBLOCKHASH       | Terminal PoW block hash used for transition process.                                                               | null    |
| TerminalBlockNumber     | NETHERMIND\_MERGECONFIG\_TERMINALBLOCKNUMBER     | Terminal PoW block number used for transition process.                                                             |         |
| TerminalTotalDifficulty | NETHERMIND\_MERGECONFIG\_TERMINALTOTALDIFFICULTY | Terminal total difficulty used for transition process.                                                             | null    |

<details>

<summary></summary>



</details>
