ethereum-client/metrics/setting-up-local-metrics-infrastracture.md, before:

---
description: Metrics then can be used to monitor your running Nethermind nodes
---

# Setting up local Metrics infrastructure

## Metrics Configuration

Nethermind metrics can be consumed by _Prometheus/Grafana_ if configured in [Metrics configuration category](../configuration/metrics.md).

## Metrics infrastructure

### Enabling Metrics in Nethermind

Metrics can be enabled by simply passing `--Metrics.Enabled true` argument to the Docker containers,`Nethermind.Runner` or `Nethermind.Launcher`  e.g. `./Nethermind.Runner --Metrics.Enabled true`. 

`Metrics.PushGatewayUrl` will need to be amended if pushgateway endpoint is not default.

### Running sample configuration

* [x] clone [metrics-infrastructure](https://github.com/NethermindEth/metrics-infrastructure) repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/NethermindEth/metrics-infrastructure.git
```

1. [x] go to `metrics-infrastructure` directory

```bash
cd metrics-infrastructure
```

1. [x] run docker stack

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

* _Prometheus_ instance should be now running on [`http://localhost:9090/`](http://localhost:9090/)
* _Pushgateway_ on [`http://localhost:9091/`](http://localhost:9091/)
* _Grafana on_ [`http://localhost:3000/`](http://localhost:3000/)\`\`

1. [x] run the `Nethermind` node with `Metrics` enabled and you should see metrics inflowing on _Pushgateway_ [url](http://localhost:9091/)

{% hint style="info" %}
You can add nethermind service to the `docker-compose.yml` file so that it runs with the whole stack

```yaml
nethermind:
    image: nethermind/nethermind
    container_name: nethermind
    restart: unless-stopped
    command: '--config goerli --Metrics.Enabled true'
    network_mode: host
    volumes:
        - ./nethermind_db/:/nethermind/nethermind_db/
        - ./keystore/:/nethermind/keystore/
        - ./logs/:/nethermind/logs/
```
{% endhint %}

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Runner" %}
```bash
./Nethermind.Runner --Metrics.Enabled true
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Launcher" %}
```bash
./Nethermind.Launcher --Metrics.Enabled true
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Docker" %}
```bash
docker run -it --network host nethermind/nethermind:alpine --Metrics.Enabled
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

![http://localhost:9091/](https://nethermind.readthedocs.io/en/latest/_images/pushgateway.png)

1. [x] open _Grafana_ [url](http://localhost:3000) and login with default login \(admin\) and password \(admin\), skip password change if you want

![](../../.gitbook/assets/image%20%2828%29.png)

* [x] go to dashboards management [`http://localhost:3000/dashboards`](http://localhost:3000/dashboards)and click `Nethermind` 

![](../../.gitbook/assets/image%20%2826%29.png)

* [x] you can now explore metrics and monitor your Nethermind node

![](../../.gitbook/assets/image%20%2829%29.png)

### Prometheus, Pushgateway and Grafana sources

{% embed url="https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus" caption="Prometheus GitHub" %}

{% embed url="https://github.com/prometheus/pushgateway" caption="Pushgateway GitHub" %}

{% embed url="https://github.com/grafana/grafana" caption="Grafana GitHub" %}

Commit message:

docs: fix missing expose port instruction

ethereum-client/metrics/setting-up-local-metrics-infrastracture.md, after:

---
description: Metrics then can be used to monitor your running Nethermind nodes
---

# Setting up local Metrics infrastructure

## Metrics Configuration

Nethermind metrics can be consumed by _Prometheus/Grafana_ if configured in [Metrics configuration category](../configuration/metrics.md).

## Metrics infrastructure

### Enabling Metrics in Nethermind

Metrics can be enabled by simply passing `--Metrics.Enabled true --Metrics.ExposePort 6060` arguments to the Docker containers,`Nethermind.Runner` or `Nethermind.Launcher`  e.g. `./Nethermind.Runner --Metrics.Enabled true --Metrics.ExposePort 6060`. 

`Metrics.PushGatewayUrl` will need to be amended if pushgateway endpoint is not default.

### Running sample configuration

* [x] clone [metrics-infrastructure](https://github.com/NethermindEth/metrics-infrastructure) repository

```bash
git clone https://github.com/NethermindEth/metrics-infrastructure.git
```

1. [x] go to `metrics-infrastructure` directory

```bash
cd metrics-infrastructure
```

1. [x] run docker stack

```bash
docker-compose up -d
```

* _Prometheus_ instance should be now running on [`http://localhost:9090/`](http://localhost:9090/)
* _Pushgateway_ on [`http://localhost:9091/`](http://localhost:9091/)
* _Grafana on_ [`http://localhost:3000/`](http://localhost:3000/)\`\`

1. [x] run the `Nethermind` node with `Metrics` enabled and you should see metrics inflowing on _Pushgateway_ [url](http://localhost:9091/)

{% hint style="info" %}
You can add nethermind service to the `docker-compose.yml` file so that it runs with the whole stack

```yaml
nethermind:
    image: nethermind/nethermind
    container_name: nethermind
    restart: unless-stopped
    command: '--config goerli --Metrics.Enabled true'
    network_mode: host
    volumes:
        - ./nethermind_db/:/nethermind/nethermind_db/
        - ./keystore/:/nethermind/keystore/
        - ./logs/:/nethermind/logs/
```
{% endhint %}

{% tabs %}
{% tab title="Runner" %}
```bash
./Nethermind.Runner --Metrics.Enabled true
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Launcher" %}
```bash
./Nethermind.Launcher --Metrics.Enabled true
```
{% endtab %}

{% tab title="Docker" %}
```bash
docker run -it --network host nethermind/nethermind:alpine --Metrics.Enabled
```
{% endtab %}
{% endtabs %}

![http://localhost:9091/](https://nethermind.readthedocs.io/en/latest/_images/pushgateway.png)

1. [x] open _Grafana_ [url](http://localhost:3000) and login with default login \(admin\) and password \(admin\), skip password change if you want

![](../../.gitbook/assets/image%20%2828%29.png)

* [x] go to dashboards management [`http://localhost:3000/dashboards`](http://localhost:3000/dashboards)and click `Nethermind` 

![](../../.gitbook/assets/image%20%2826%29.png)

* [x] you can now explore metrics and monitor your Nethermind node

![](../../.gitbook/assets/image%20%2829%29.png)

### Prometheus, Pushgateway and Grafana sources

{% embed url="https://github.com/prometheus/prometheus" caption="Prometheus GitHub" %}

{% embed url="https://github.com/prometheus/pushgateway" caption="Pushgateway GitHub" %}

{% embed url="https://github.com/grafana/grafana" caption="Grafana GitHub" %}
